If you are a developer you might like to take on some of these suggestions in your own fork according to your needs.   

- This toolkit can be configured to support additional applications that follow a similar design pattern to Joomla,Wordpress,Drupal or Moodle. Such an example might be NextCloud and that could be a good integration challenge to take on.
- This toolkit can be configured to support additional VPS cloudhosts such as AWS, GoogleCloud, Rackspace and a lot of others. It might be a nice challenge to work out how to integrate support for these providers or other providers according to your taste and preference.
- I use S3 compatible object storage for assets offloading using tools such as geesefs, s3fs, goofys or rclone. You might prefer to create a new class of server (a fileserver) and add it to the buildchain where the fileserver has block storage added to it and then the whole webroots of your webservers can be mounted using sshfs or NFS from your fileserver. Under such a solution there are some considerations, cost and whether the fileserver becomes a single point of failure and how to build more resilience if it is. An additional consideration is if the webroots mounted from your block storage were to grow to great size, then, what solution do you have in terms of backups and so on (you might prefer to work with your VPS cloud host to figured out the best solution for persistence). Writing the data from your block storage to object storage might be prohibitive for very large datasets but if you go with a provider's backup solution does that limit your capacity to deploy to a different provider if you wanted to?
- I provide a very minimal solution for the front end to the authentication server. If you make use of an authentication server as part of your deployment you are free to spruce up what is offererd by default for the front end and you will possibly want to put some explanation for your users to do with routing themselves through the authentication server mechanism if they experience a timeout from the main application as well as possibly some branding and so on. 
- I support cloudflare its possible that other proxy services could be used and you might want to consider integrating support for other proxies if using a proxy solution is your prefered way to go.

