# WINTERSYS PROJECTS
--------------------

#### FIRST A TOUCH OF PHILOSOPHY

I believe that we all work for the same startup and that the whole planet is one startup company. What this realisation does is it forces you to take your mind "next level" and what "next level" looks like for me is something like this. Our planet has different departments, administration (which is what you call the civil service), legal (which is what you call the judiciary), technical (which is what you call the tech giants and smaller tech companies), space (which is NASA, SpaceX and so on), health (which is the NHS and health services in general like Holland and Barratt) - I think you get the idea. What that realisation means is that, for example, the tech giants are not lethal commpetitors one to another once you go "next level" rather, each company (Amazon, Google, Alibaba and so on) are teams in the tech department of one global company (planet-earth.com). In other words, anyone that has worked for a startup knows that there's often startup difficulties and with this understanding all of history is simply the start up troubles for our shared planet/company that each and every one of us is a valid stakeholder in regardless of what is claimed and what is accused. If you have ever watched strong men pulling lorries and so on what you can see is that its very very difficult to get the lorry moving from stationary but once the wheels are rolling it starts to get easier. Therefore, maybe, what we call history is just the very difficult initial start phase of our movement, I think we can definitely make things a lot easier on ourselves if we do two things, lose the greed and lose the over complexity. The CEO of the company is obviously God and each and every one of us is an employee of the same company and we are all under his employ and watchful eye (which is why there is the all seeing eye on the dollar). When you die you have been "given the sack" from "the company" and at this startup there is no such thing as  

a) Unemployment (everyone is a valid contributor)  

b) different jobs - the day you were born was your first day of employment and the day you die is your redundacy day - in other words, you only ever had one job and that job is your life itself. 

And so this is a relatively easy thing to understand and it's just about taking things "next level". Once you go next level you can't really have vicious competition anymore because you realise that if you kill your competitor's business you are in effect eating or killing yourself because one level up your competitor is the same company you are and so eating them is autophagic. What this means is that as this startup planet begins to go "next level", in other words, it can't really be thought of as just a "startup" any more, the key to it is to become a cooperative rather than a competitive. There's a lot of problems in this company not least the fact that the employees fucking hate each other. If we don't want our collective enterprise to fail it's essential to stop self harming. 

More-so, then, the key contribution I wanted to make was to offer a (possible) example way for competitors to cooperate and become a singleton. You can look up what a singleton is [here](https://nickbostrom.com/fut/singleton). My claim that "the single decision making agency" described here is "God". For my contribution I created a tool which deploys social networks and other application types based on CMS systems spanning different competitors infrastructure across (currently up to four) providers (Exoscale, Vultr, Linode and Digital Ocean). With my solution (which hasn't been used in earnest yet) if you have 10 webservers running you might be running 4 on Exoscale, 2 on Vultr, 2 on Linode and 2 on Digital Ocean with a managed database running with Exoscale) and the DNS system (currently) has to be Cloudflare for this style of distributed deployment but my point is energetically it's about using direct competitors in a cooperative way and the thing about this is that its as much about the "EMF Balancing Technique" as it is about the technical challenge of coding up a solution through which dissociated energies cooperate. What I mean by EMF balancing is taking competitive energies and balancing them in a cooperative way for a greater good. All I am saying is in my own little way I think we can start to forge a "workers coop" as opposed to a "competition war". They say that anything weak "dies" in a competitive organisation and therefore didn't deserve to succeed but what I see is that a lot of the best stuff does die and a lot of shit survives. Why? Because surivival and profit is basically a function of how much effort you put into surviving and profitting. If put all your energy into goodness rather surviving and making money you may well die but that's the price of putting the goodness of the whole as more important than goodness you do for a part. 

----------------------------

#### AVAILABLE PROJECTS

1. The first Wintersys developed project is the [Agile Deployment Toolkit](<Agile Deployment Toolkit/ADT.md>). The Agile Deployment Toolkit was built as a volunteer without using money (other than the costs of running testing and development servers) and starting from nothing. This project had a budget of at most $30 a month and me existing like a scroungy sewer rat **living for code** to get it this far. The programming (Posix shell basically) wasn't all that difficult but what was extremely difficult was the integration challenenge in other words, finding solutions that would fit various providers on the shifting sands of what is relatively new technology. If this is to become established its going to need intense usage from other developers such that all possible integration quirks are erradicated and once that is made so, you might have a powertool on your hands for social network (and other application type) deployments "at scale". 





[Privacy Policy](https://www.freeprivacypolicy.com/live/24a200af-0b6d-4be5-8bd0-6022ab80ba59)
